[Pages] Simplify Next.js docs (and port over content from `next-on-pages` repo) (#15995)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/pages/framework-guides/nextjs/ssr/supported-features.md

---
pcx_content_type: reference
title: Supported features
meta:
  title: Supported features
---

# Supported Versions and Features

## Supported Next.js versions

`@cloudflare/next-on-pages` supports all minor and patch version of Next.js 13 and 14. We regularly run manual and automated tests to ensure compatibility.

### Node.js

> Next.js has [two "runtimes"](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/rendering/edge-and-nodejs-runtimes) — "Edge" and "Node.js". When you run your Next.js app on Cloudflare, you [can use available Node.js APIs](/workers/runtime-apis/nodejs/) — but you currently can only use Next.js' "Edge" runtime.

Author: I might reframe for clarity here by moving the limitations to the front, then providing the explanation.

Author: So it'd read more like, 

```
The following Node.js APIs work in a Next.js app:

<list>

Explanation as to why that is.
```

Author: Happy to push up that change if it makes sense

Reviewer: Hmmm I would like to keep this as-is so that we can be clear about what is driving the constraint upfront, since it is an unusual one.

The Workers runtime [supports a broad set of Node.js APIs](/workers/runtime-apis/nodejs/) — but [the Next.js Edge Runtime code intentionally constrains this](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/blob/canary/packages/next/src/build/webpack/plugins/middleware-plugin.ts#L820). As a result, only the following Node.js APIs work in a Next.js app:

- `buffer`
- `events`
- `assert`
- `util`
- `async_hooks`

## Supported Features

### Routers

> Both the older [Pages](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages) router and newer [App](https://nextjs.org/docs/app) router from Next.js are supported. Cloudlflare recommends using the App router.

Author: ```suggestion
Cloudlflare recommends using the [App router](https://nextjs.org/docs/app) from Next.js.

Cloudflare also supports the older [Pages](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages) router from Next.js.
```

[^10]: **productionBrowserSourceMaps**: The webpack chunks deduplication performed by `@cloudflare/next-on-pages` doesn't currently preserve source maps in any case so this option can't be implemented either. In the future we might try to preserver source maps, in such case it should be simple to also support this option.

[^11]: **reactStrictMode**: Currently we build the application so react strict mode (being a local dev feature) doesn't work either way. If we can make strict mode work, this option will most likely work straight away.

[^12]: **runtime configuration**: We could look into implementing the runtime configuration but it is probably not worth it since it is a legacy configuration and environment variables should be used instead.

[^13]: **serverComponentsExternalPackages**: This option is for applications running on Node.js so it's not relevant to applications running on Cloudflare Pages.

### Internationalization

> Besides the above mentioned `next.config.js` properties, there is also the `i18n` one, that is also fully supported meaning that `@cloudflare/next-on-pages` does support Next.js' built-in internationalization system. For more details on the option see the [Next.js Internationalization documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/routing/internationalization).

Author: ```suggestion
Cloudflare also supports Next.js' [internationalized (`i18n`) routing](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/routing/internationalization).
```

### Rendering and Data Fetching

#### Incremental Static Regeneration

> Incremental Static Regeneration (ISR) is a rendering mode in Next.js that allows you to automatically cache and periodically regenerate pages with fresh data. Next.js [does not support](https://nextjs.org/docs/pages/building-your-application/rendering/incremental-static-regeneration) building ISR pages for the edge runtime, and as such, pages should be changed to use server side rendering (SSR) instead.

Author: I'd rephrase this section to bring forward the important info, something like,

```
If you use ISR pages (insert definition in footnote), `@cloudflare/next-on-pages` will use static fallback files that are generated by the build process.

This means that your application will still correctly serve your ISR/prerendered pages (but without the regeneration aspect).

If this causes issues for your application, change your pages to use server side rendering (SSR) instead. 

<insert explanation as to why it doesn't work in a dropdown>

```

Reviewer: go for it

ISR pages are built by the Vercel CLI to generate Vercel [Prerender Functions](https://vercel.com/docs/build-output-api/v3/primitives#prerender-functions). These are Node.js serverless functions that can be called in the background while serving the page from the cache. It is not possible to use these with Cloudflare Pages and they are not compatible with the [edge runtime](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/edge) currently.

In case the Vercel build process generates prerendered pages for your application, `@cloudflare/next-on-pages` will use static fallback files that are generated by the build process so that your application will still correctly serve your ISR/prerendered pages (but without the regeneration aspect).

#### Dynamic handling of static routes

> `@cloudflare/next-on-pages` supports standard statically generated routes, it does however not support dynamic Node.js-based on-demand handling of such routes.

Author: ```suggestion
`@cloudflare/next-on-pages` supports standard statically generated routes. 

 It does not support dynamic Node.js-based on-demand handling of such routes.
```

For more details see:

- [troubleshooting `generateStaticParams`](/pages/framework-guides/nextjs/ssr/troubleshooting/#generatestaticparams)
- [troubleshooting `getStaticPaths` ](/pages/framework-guides/nextjs/ssr/troubleshooting/#getstaticpaths)

#### Caching and Data Revalidation

> Revalidation and `next/cache` are supported on Cloudflare Pages, and can use various bindings. For more information, see our [caching documentation](/pages/framework-guides/nextjs/ssr/caching/).

Author: ```suggestion
Revalidation and `next/cache` are supported on Cloudflare Pages and can use various bindings. For more information, see our [caching documentation](/pages/framework-guides/nextjs/ssr/caching/).
```
